now the Lord spoke to Moses saying speak
to the children of Israel that they turn
and can before pie ha hirez
between middle and the sea opposite
bales Ephraim you shall camp before it
by the scene for Pharaoh will say of the
children of Israel they are bewildered
by the land the wilderness has closed
them in then I will harden Pharaoh's
heart so that he will pursue them and I
will gain honor over Pharaoh and over
all his army that the Egyptians men know
that I am the Lord and they did so now
it was told the king of Egypt that the
people had fled and the heart of Pharaoh
and his servants was turned against the
people and they said why have we done
this that we have let Israel go from
serving us so he made ready his chariot
and took his people with him
also he took 600 choice chariots and all
the chariots of Egypt with captain's
over every one of them and the Lord
hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of
Egypt and he pursued the children of
Israel and the children of Israel went
out with bogeys so the Egyptians pursued
them all the horses and chariots of
Pharaoh his horsemen and his army and
overtook them camping by the sea beside
tyre Huayra before bale zphone and when
Pharaoh drew near the children of Israel
lifted their eyes and behold the
Egyptians marched after them so they
were very offended the children of
Israel cried out to the Lord then they
said to Moses because there were no
graves in Egypt have you taken as a way
to die in the wilderness
why have you so dealt with us to bring
us up out of Egypt is this not the word
that we told you in Egypt saying let us
alone that we may serve the Egyptians
for it would have been better for us to
serve the Egyptians and that we should
die in the wilderness do not be afraid
stand still and see the salvation of the
Lord which he will accomplish for you
today for the Egyptians whom you see
today you shall see again no more
forever the Lord will fight for you and
you shall hold your peace
and the Lord said to Moses why do you
cry to me
tell the children of Israel to go
forward but lift up your rod and stretch
out your hand over the sea and divide it
and the children of Israel shall go on
dry ground through the midst of the sea
and I indeed will harden the hearts of
the Egyptians and they shall follow them
so I will gain honor over Pharaoh and
over all his army his chariots and his
horsemen then the Egyptians shall know
that I am the Lord when I have gained
honor for myself over Pharaoh his
chariots and his horsemen
the angel of God who went before the
camp of Israel moved and went behind
them and the pillar of cloud went from
the Fulton and stood behind them so it
came between the camp of the Egyptians
and the camp of Israel
thus it was a cloud in darkness to the
one and it gave light by night to the
other so that the one did not come near
the other all that night
the Moses stretched out his hand over
the sea
and the Lord caused the scene to go back
by a strong east wind all that night
and made the sea into dry land and the
waters were divided
so the children of Israel went into the
midst of the sea on the dry ground and
the waters were a wolves event on their
right hand and on their left and the
Egyptians pursued and went after them
into the midst of the sea all Pharaoh's
horses his chariots and his horsemen now
it came to pass in the morning watch
that the Lord looked down upon the army
of the Egyptians through the pillar of
fire and cloud and he troubled the army
of the Egyptians
he took off their charities so that they
drove them with difficulty an Egyptian
said let us free from the face of Israel
for the Lord fight for them against the
Egyptians
remember Lord said to Moses stretch out
your hand over the sea that the waters
may come back upon the Egyptians on
their chariots and on their horse and
Moses stretched out his hand over the
sea and when the morning of you
the sea returned to its full deck while
the Egyptians were fleeing into
Wow
so in the water were through the
Egyptians in the midst of the sea
and the waters returned and covered the
chariots the horsemen and all the army
of Pharaoh that came into the sea after
nine not so much as one of them remained
but the children of Israel had walked on
dry land in the midst of the sea and the
waters were a wall to them on their
right hand and on their left so the Lord
saved Israel that day out of the hand of
the Egyptians and Israel saw the
Egyptians dead on the seashore thus
Israel saw the great work which the Lord
had done in Egypt so the people fear the
Lord and believed the Lord and his
servant Moses
you